README.md, before:

igrow
=====

igrow is a multithreaded structure-based [drug design] tool for computational drug discovery. It is hosted by GitHub at https://github.com/HongjianLi/igrow under [Apache License 2.0].


Features
--------

* igrow is inspired by [AutoGrow]. It uses either [idock] or [AutoDock Vina] as backend docking engine.
* igrow supports more types of chemical synthesis such as halogen replacement and branch replacement in addition to hydrogen replacement.
* igrow digests ligands and fragments in pdbqt format, saving the effort of frequently calling the prepare_ligand4 python script.
* igrow invents its own thread pool in order to reuse threads and maintain a high CPU utilization throughout the entire synhsizing procedure. The thread pool parallelizes the creation of mutants and children in each generation.
* igrow utilizes flyweight pattern for caching fragments and dynamic pointer vector for caching and sorting ligands.
* igrow traces the sources of generated ligands and dumps the statistics in csv format so that users can easily get to know how the ligands are synthesized from the initial ligand and fragments.


Supported operating systems and compilers
-----------------------------------------

* Ubuntu 11.10 x86_64 and GCC 4.6.1
* Ubuntu 11.10 x86_64 and CLANG 2.9
* Ubuntu 11.10 x86_64 and Intel C++ Compiler 12.0.5.220
* Arch Linux 3.1.6 x86_64 and GCC 4.6.2
* Arch Linux 3.1.6 x86_64 and CLANG 3.0
* Oracle Solaris 11 11/11 and GCC 4.5.2
* Windows 7 SP1 x64 and Windows SDK 7.1
* Windows 7 SP1 x64 and Visual Studio 2010
* Windows 7 SP1 x64 and Intel C++ Compiler XE 12.1.1.258


Unsupported operating systems and compilers
-------------------------------------------

* Windows 8 Developer Preview and Visual Studio 11 Developer Preview
* Solaris 11 Express 2010.11 x86_64 and GCC 3.4.3
* Mac OS X Lion 10.7.0 and Xcode 4.2
* Mac OS X Lion 10.7.0 and GCC 4.6.1
* Mac OS X Lion 10.7.0 and CLANG 3.0


Compilation
-----------

igrow depends on [Boost C++ Libraries]. Boost 1.48.0 is tested. The Boost libraries required by igrow are `System`, `Thread`, `Filesystem`, and `Program Options`. [Boost.Process], an unofficial library, is also required by igrow. It must be downloaded and extracted to the Boost distribution tree.

### Compilation on Linux

The Makefile uses GCC as the default compiler. To compile, simply run

    make -j

CLANG is also supported.

    make -j TOOLSET=clang

Intel C++ Compiler is also supported.

    make -j TOOLSET=intel-linux

One may modify the Makefile to use a different compiler or different compilation options.

The generated objects will be placed in the `obj` folder, and the generated executable will be placed in the `bin` folder.

### Compilation on Windows

Visual Studio 2010 solution and project files are provided in the `msvc` folder. The project file uses Windows 7.1 SDK as platform toolset by default. One may revert it to vc100. To compile, simply run

    msbuild /t:Build /p:Configuration=Release /m

Or one may open `igrow.sln` in Visual Studio 2010 and do a full rebuild.

The generated objects will be placed in the `obj` folder, and the generated executable will be placed in the `bin` folder.


Usage
-----

First add igrow to your PATH environment variable.

To display a full list of available options, simply run the program without arguments

    igrow

The `examples` folder contains several use cases. One can supply the options from command line arguments

    igrow --fragment_folder ~/igrow/fragments --initial_ligand ~/igrow/examples/2ZD1/ZINC01019824.pdb --python ~/MGLTools/bin/python2.5 --prepare_ligand4 ~/MGLTools/MGLToolsPckgs/AutoDockTools/Utilities24/prepare_ligand4.pyo --docking_program ~/idock/bin/idock --docking_config ~/igrow/examples/2ZD1/idock.cfg

Or one can instruct igrow to load the options from a configuration file

    cd examples/2ZD1
    igrow --config igrow.cfg


Documentation Creation
----------------------

Documentations in both HTML and LaTeX formats can be esaily created by running [doxygen]

    doxygen doxygen

The created documents will be placed in `doc` folder. To compile LaTeX files into PDF, one must have `pdflatex` installed.

    cd doc/latex
    make

The generated PDF will be `refman.pdf`.


Change Log
----------

### 1.0 (2011-12-20)

* First release.


Contact Author
--------------

[Jacky Lee]


Logo
----

![igrow logo](https://github.com/HongjianLi/igrow/raw/master/logo.png)

Red grape is chosen as the logo for igrow because it is one of the author's favorite fruit. The logo image is collected from [Open Clip Art].


[drug design]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Drug_design
[AutoGrow]: http://autogrow.ucsd.edu
[AutoDock Vina]: http://vina.scripps.edu
[idock]: https://github.com/HongjianLi/idock
[Apache License 2.0]: http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.html
[C++11]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/C++11
[Boost C++ Libraries]: http://www.boost.org
[Boost.Process]: http://www.highscore.de/boost/gsoc2010/process.zip
[doxygen]: http://www.doxygen.org
[Jacky Lee]: http://www.cse.cuhk.edu.hk/~hjli
[Open Clip Art]: http://www.openclipart.org

Commit message:

Added modified version of Boost.Process as process.tar.bz2, which removed "" in line 122 of operations.hpp

README.md, after:

igrow
=====

igrow is a multithreaded structure-based [drug design] tool for computational drug discovery. It is hosted by GitHub at https://github.com/HongjianLi/igrow under [Apache License 2.0].


Features
--------

* igrow is inspired by [AutoGrow]. It uses either [idock] or [AutoDock Vina] as backend docking engine.
* igrow supports more types of chemical synthesis such as halogen replacement and branch replacement in addition to hydrogen replacement.
* igrow digests ligands and fragments in pdbqt format, saving the effort of frequently calling the prepare_ligand4 python script.
* igrow invents its own thread pool in order to reuse threads and maintain a high CPU utilization throughout the entire synhsizing procedure. The thread pool parallelizes the creation of mutants and children in each generation.
* igrow utilizes flyweight pattern for caching fragments and dynamic pointer vector for caching and sorting ligands.
* igrow traces the sources of generated ligands and dumps the statistics in csv format so that users can easily get to know how the ligands are synthesized from the initial ligand and fragments.


Supported operating systems and compilers
-----------------------------------------

* Ubuntu 11.10 x86_64 and GCC 4.6.1
* Ubuntu 11.10 x86_64 and CLANG 2.9
* Ubuntu 11.10 x86_64 and Intel C++ Compiler 12.0.5.220
* Arch Linux 3.1.6 x86_64 and GCC 4.6.2
* Arch Linux 3.1.6 x86_64 and CLANG 3.0
* Oracle Solaris 11 11/11 and GCC 4.5.2
* Windows 7 SP1 x64 and Windows SDK 7.1
* Windows 7 SP1 x64 and Visual Studio 2010
* Windows 7 SP1 x64 and Intel C++ Compiler XE 12.1.1.258


Unsupported operating systems and compilers
-------------------------------------------

* Windows 8 Developer Preview and Visual Studio 11 Developer Preview
* Solaris 11 Express 2010.11 x86_64 and GCC 3.4.3
* Mac OS X Lion 10.7.0 and Xcode 4.2
* Mac OS X Lion 10.7.0 and GCC 4.6.1
* Mac OS X Lion 10.7.0 and CLANG 3.0


Compilation
-----------

igrow depends on [Boost C++ Libraries]. Boost 1.48.0 is tested. The Boost libraries required by igrow are `System`, `Thread`, `Filesystem`, and `Program Options`. A slightly modified version of [Boost.Process], an unofficial and header-only library, is also required by igrow. The file 'process.tar.bz2' must be extracted to the Boost distribution tree in order to pass compilation.

### Compilation on Linux

The Makefile uses GCC as the default compiler. To compile, simply run

    make -j

CLANG is also supported.

    make -j TOOLSET=clang

Intel C++ Compiler is also supported.

    make -j TOOLSET=intel-linux

One may modify the Makefile to use a different compiler or different compilation options.

The generated objects will be placed in the `obj` folder, and the generated executable will be placed in the `bin` folder.

### Compilation on Windows

Visual Studio 2010 solution and project files are provided in the `msvc` folder. The project file uses Windows 7.1 SDK as platform toolset by default. One may revert it to vc100. To compile, simply run

    msbuild /t:Build /p:Configuration=Release /m

Or one may open `igrow.sln` in Visual Studio 2010 and do a full rebuild.

The generated objects will be placed in the `obj` folder, and the generated executable will be placed in the `bin` folder.


Usage
-----

First add igrow to your PATH environment variable.

To display a full list of available options, simply run the program without arguments

    igrow

The `examples` folder contains several use cases. One can supply the options from command line arguments

    igrow --fragment_folder ~/igrow/fragments --initial_ligand ~/igrow/examples/2ZD1/ZINC01019824.pdb --python ~/MGLTools/bin/python2.5 --prepare_ligand4 ~/MGLTools/MGLToolsPckgs/AutoDockTools/Utilities24/prepare_ligand4.pyo --docking_program ~/idock/bin/idock --docking_config ~/igrow/examples/2ZD1/idock.cfg

Or one can instruct igrow to load the options from a configuration file

    cd examples/2ZD1
    igrow --config igrow.cfg


Documentation Creation
----------------------

Documentations in both HTML and LaTeX formats can be esaily created by running [doxygen]

    doxygen doxygen

The created documents will be placed in `doc` folder. To compile LaTeX files into PDF, one must have `pdflatex` installed.

    cd doc/latex
    make

The generated PDF will be `refman.pdf`.


Change Log
----------

### 1.0 (2011-12-20)

* First release.


Contact Author
--------------

[Jacky Lee]


Logo
----

![igrow logo](https://github.com/HongjianLi/igrow/raw/master/logo.png)

Red grape is chosen as the logo for igrow because it is one of the author's favorite fruit. The logo image is collected from [Open Clip Art].


[drug design]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Drug_design
[AutoGrow]: http://autogrow.ucsd.edu
[AutoDock Vina]: http://vina.scripps.edu
[idock]: https://github.com/HongjianLi/idock
[Apache License 2.0]: http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.html
[C++11]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/C++11
[Boost C++ Libraries]: http://www.boost.org
[Boost.Process]: http://www.highscore.de/boost/gsoc2010/process.zip
[doxygen]: http://www.doxygen.org
[Jacky Lee]: http://www.cse.cuhk.edu.hk/~hjli
[Open Clip Art]: http://www.openclipart.org
